hi there I'm Kevan ill for total
fisherman calm that you're joining us
today I'm going to show you how to tie a
three hook trolling leader for salmon
fishing and the advantages of this are
that it allows you to have two hooks in
the bait and one hook trailing behind it
and you lose fewer fish and you seem to
get more hookups using this method now
we like to use fluorocarbon leader
suffix is a our preferred brand suffix
or Seaguar has been outstandingly good
to us Gamakatsu hooks are our hook of
choice and we're going to get started I
like to pull off about six or seven feet
of leader material this is 25 pound
leader and this is this leader is going
to be used for spring chinook they are
not as far along in their life cycle so
their teeth aren't as big and sharp as
their fall fish emulsion of brethren so
we don't have to worry about using forty
or fifty pound leader like we do in
August and September but don't be afraid
to step this up as the summer goes along
and the nice thing about fluorocarbon
leader is that it is very hard and it is
hard for them to bite through but don't
try to use twenty-five pound in the fall
for trolling herring because those big
kings will buy through it even a coho
can get their teeth through this we're
using a kamikatsu for out hooks we'll
use for OTT 303 OTT sometimes just three
out sometimes four sometimes five OTT
for OTT for some that bigger hook would
be the one that's in the front it just
depends on personal preference size of
the bait and how we're fishing so to get
started we tie on the bottom hook first
okay and all this is is an egg loop knot
pass that through the eye of the hook
okay like so I'm going to take one two
three four five wraps of the leader
material around that
get all the way to the very top of the
piece of leader pass that back through
can you see that pass that back through
the eye of the hook wrap back over it
two three four five you could do six you
can do four five seems to be a pretty
good number draw this through till it
gets tight a little bit of management of
the leader material as you go along is
going to keep it from kinking draw that
up like so tighten that up really well
okay so you've got this tag in sticking
out go ahead and cut that off nice and
close okay now you're ready for the next
one spring chinook we use green label
hearing typically the way I like to
measure green label herring the gap
between the hooks for green label hair
and rather is by using my fingers I have
medium-sized hands I don't have very big
hands so if you have medium-sized hands
this would probably be a good
approximate measurement for you between
the middle hook and the bottom hook I
like to have about one and a half finger
widths I'm placing the bend of the
placing the bend here of that middle
hook on top of my index finger and I'm
looking at the eye of the bottom hook
and that is right in between my middle
finger and that's exactly going to put
it at the end of the herrings tail when
you're trolling and then you just do
your normal wraps two three four five
hold that with your thumb and index
finger of your right hand pass this back
through the eye just like we did the
other one one two three four five okay
make sure to keep this out of the mix
when you're drawing this up because it's
going to get in the way a little bit of
practice goes a long ways on this get
all of the line over here in your right
hand get it out of the way push it over
there
all that's in my left hand is just those
two hooks and draw this up pull it
through there okay I'm kink this as you
go along it's a little time consuming
these take a lot longer but you know
what's nice when you get one hook in the
fish you typically get at least one
other hook in the fish when you're using
three hooks and using two hooks you most
the time just get one hook in the fish
two hooks in the fish is better than one
oak in the fish you're not going to be
nearly as likely to lose the fish win
when you have three or two or even three
hooks in it so now is the time for our
very top hook this one is going to have
a little bit different spacing from
member of the bottom to the middle had
one and a half fingers this top one is
going to have two fingers okay so as you
can see there I'm capping that distance
from the top to the bottom is two
fingers this is for green label herring
you can probably get away with doing
this for blue label herring to blue
labels are a little bit bigger three
four five okay
draw this up I'm going to pass it back
through the eye of the hook we like
black anodized hooks or red Anna die
sucks because they stay sharper longer
the anodizing is an extra level of
corrosion protection and I've had
extremely good luck with these comic
offenses again draw all this back up I
can't get as you go along and there you
have it you are done with your three
hook rig top one here if you're going to
go a little bit bigger this one would be
one size bigger so you for blue labels a
lot of times we'll go a five OTT then
the middle will be a four ah and a four
eye for running anchovies generally just
run for four aughts on all three
you